CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to FleetImporter

Thank you for your interest in contributing! Recipe additions and processor enhancements from the community are welcome.

## Ways to Contribute

### Become a Maintainer

I am actively looking for 2-3 additional maintainers to help maintain this repository and ensure it doesn't become dependent on a single person. Maintainers help with:

- Reviewing and merging pull requests
- Testing new recipes and processor changes
- Triaging issues and providing support
- Maintaining code quality and documentation
- Planning future enhancements

**Interested in becoming a maintainer?** Contact [@kitzy](https://macadmins.slack.com/team/U04QVKUR4) on the [MacAdmins Slack](https://macadmins.org/slack) to discuss. 

---

### Adding New Recipes

We encourage contributions of AutoPkg recipes for additional macOS software. Each software package should have two recipes:

1. **Direct Fleet recipe** (`.fleet.recipe.yaml`) - Uploads directly to Fleet API
2. **GitOps recipe** (`.fleet.gitops.recipe.yaml`) - Uploads to S3 and creates pull requests

See the existing recipes in this repository for examples (Claude, Caffeine, GitHub Desktop, etc.).

#### Recipe Requirements

- Follow the established naming convention: `SoftwareName.fleet.recipe.yaml` and `SoftwareName.fleet.gitops.recipe.yaml`
- Include appropriate categories from Fleet's supported list:
  - Browsers
  - Communication
  - Developer tools
  - Productivity
- Add an icon file (PNG, square, 120-1024px) if available
- Use consistent formatting with existing recipes
- Reference an existing AutoPkg parent recipe that produces a `.pkg` file

#### Recipe Structure

Place recipes in a folder named after the software vendor:

```
VendorName/
├── SoftwareName.fleet.recipe.yaml
├── SoftwareName.fleet.gitops.recipe.yaml
└── SoftwareName.png (optional)
```

## Style Guide

Recipes in this repository follow consistent formatting and naming conventions to ensure maintainability and predictability.

### Filename

Recipe filenames should follow the pattern:
- `<SoftwareName>.fleet.direct.recipe.yaml` for direct Fleet API uploads
- `<SoftwareName>.fleet.gitops.recipe.yaml` for GitOps workflows

Where `<SoftwareName>` matches the `NAME` input variable used throughout the recipe chain.

### Vendor Folder

Each recipe resides in a subfolder named after the software vendor or publisher:
- Use the official company/vendor name (e.g., `GitHub`, `Anthropic`, `Signal`)
- Support files (icons, scripts) should use the software name as a prefix
- No spaces in folder names; use proper capitalization

### Parent Recipe

The recipe's `ParentRecipe` must be:
- Publicly available via a shared AutoPkg repository
- Part of the AutoPkg organization or well-established community repos
- Produces a standard Apple package (`.pkg`) file

### Identifier

Recipe identifiers should follow the pattern:
- `com.github.fleet.direct.<SoftwareName>` for direct mode
- `com.github.fleet.gitops.<SoftwareName>` for GitOps mode

### Processing

Recipes should have a single processor stage: `FleetImporter`.

All arguments should be capable of being overridden by `Input` section variables using uppercase names with underscores (e.g., `%FLEET_API_BASE%`, `%SOFTWARE_TITLE%`).

### Required Arguments

All recipes must include these arguments in the `Input` section:
- `NAME`: Software display name (consistent with parent recipe)
- `SELF_SERVICE` must be set to `true`
- `AUTOMATIC_INSTALL` must be set to `false`
- Software packaging arguments from parent recipe (`pkg_path`, `version`)
- Mode-specific configuration:
  - **Direct mode**: API tokens, Fleet base URL, team ID
  - **GitOps mode**: S3 settings, GitHub tokens, repository URL
    - `FLEET_GITOPS_SOFTWARE_DIR` must be set to `lib/macos/software`
    - `FLEET_GITOPS_TEAM_YAML_PATH` must be set to `teams/workstations.yml`

### Categories

Use only these supported Fleet categories:
- `Browsers`
- `Communication`
- `Developer tools`
- `Productivity`

### Icons

If including an icon:
- Must be PNG format
- Square dimensions between 120x120px and 1024x1024px
- Less than 100KB filesize (Fleet requirement)
- Named `<SoftwareName>.png`
- Referenced in recipe as `icon: <SoftwareName>.png`

### YAML Formatting

- Use 2-space indentation
- Quote string values consistently
- Use array format for lists (categories, labels)
- Validate YAML syntax before submitting

### Linting

All recipes must pass YAML validation:
```bash
python3 -c "import yaml; yaml.safe_load(open('Recipe.yaml'))"
```

### Enhancing the Processor

Improvements to `FleetImporter.py` are welcome, including:

- Bug fixes
- New features that align with Fleet's API capabilities
- Performance improvements
- Better error handling and logging
- Additional configuration options

#### Code Style Requirements

All Python code must pass AutoPkg's code style requirements before submission:

```bash
# Install development dependencies
python3 -m pip install black isort flake8 flake8-bugbear

# Format code
python3 -m black FleetImporter/FleetImporter.py
python3 -m isort FleetImporter/FleetImporter.py

# Validate (all must pass)
python3 -m py_compile FleetImporter/FleetImporter.py
python3 -m black --check --diff FleetImporter/FleetImporter.py
python3 -m isort --check-only --diff FleetImporter/FleetImporter.py
python3 -m flake8 FleetImporter/FleetImporter.py
```

## Submitting Changes

### Before You Submit

1. **Test your changes**: Run recipes locally to ensure they work
2. **Validate YAML**: Ensure all recipe files are valid YAML
3. **Run code checks**: For processor changes, pass all style checks
4. **Update documentation**: Add or update README sections as needed

### Pull Request Process

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch from `main`
3. Make your changes following the guidelines above
4. Ensure all tests pass in GitHub Actions
5. Submit a pull request with a clear description of your changes

### Pull Request Guidelines

- **Title**: Use a descriptive title (e.g., "Add Firefox recipes" or "Fix error handling in package upload")
- **Description**: Explain what changes you made and why
- **Testing**: Describe how you tested your changes
- **Related Issues**: Link to any related issues or discussions

## Questions or Ideas?

- Open an [issue](https://github.com/kitzy/fleetimporter/issues) for questions or feature requests
- Check existing issues and pull requests before starting work
- Ask for help in the [#autopkg channel](https://macadmins.slack.com/archives/C056155B4) on MacAdmins Slack
- Feel free to ask for help or clarification

## Code of Conduct

Be respectful and constructive in all interactions. This is a community project, and we appreciate your contributions!

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the same license as the project (see [LICENSE](LICENSE)).

Commit message:

Update style guide to recommend automatic icon extraction
- Change default expectation to use automatic icon extraction
- Update recipe requirements to reflect auto-extraction as default
- Update recipe structure to show icons are no longer needed
- Change vendor folder guidance for manual icons (rarely needed)
- Expand Icons section with auto-extraction details
- Document skip_icon_extraction parameter for edge cases
- Note manual icons only needed when auto-extraction not possible

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to FleetImporter

Thank you for your interest in contributing! Recipe additions and processor enhancements from the community are welcome.

## Ways to Contribute

### Become a Maintainer

I am actively looking for 2-3 additional maintainers to help maintain this repository and ensure it doesn't become dependent on a single person. Maintainers help with:

- Reviewing and merging pull requests
- Testing new recipes and processor changes
- Triaging issues and providing support
- Maintaining code quality and documentation
- Planning future enhancements

**Interested in becoming a maintainer?** Contact [@kitzy](https://macadmins.slack.com/team/U04QVKUR4) on the [MacAdmins Slack](https://macadmins.org/slack) to discuss. 

---

### Adding New Recipes

We encourage contributions of AutoPkg recipes for additional macOS software. Each software package should have two recipes:

1. **Direct Fleet recipe** (`.fleet.recipe.yaml`) - Uploads directly to Fleet API
2. **GitOps recipe** (`.fleet.gitops.recipe.yaml`) - Uploads to S3 and creates pull requests

See the existing recipes in this repository for examples (Claude, Caffeine, GitHub Desktop, etc.).

#### Recipe Requirements

- Follow the established naming convention: `SoftwareName.fleet.recipe.yaml` and `SoftwareName.fleet.gitops.recipe.yaml`
- Include appropriate categories from Fleet's supported list:
  - Browsers
  - Communication
  - Developer tools
  - Productivity
- Use automatic icon extraction (default behavior, no action needed)
- Use consistent formatting with existing recipes
- Reference an existing AutoPkg parent recipe that produces a `.pkg` file

#### Recipe Structure

Place recipes in a folder named after the software vendor:

```
VendorName/
├── SoftwareName.fleet.recipe.yaml
└── SoftwareName.fleet.gitops.recipe.yaml
```

## Style Guide

Recipes in this repository follow consistent formatting and naming conventions to ensure maintainability and predictability.

### Filename

Recipe filenames should follow the pattern:
- `<SoftwareName>.fleet.direct.recipe.yaml` for direct Fleet API uploads
- `<SoftwareName>.fleet.gitops.recipe.yaml` for GitOps workflows

Where `<SoftwareName>` matches the `NAME` input variable used throughout the recipe chain.

### Vendor Folder

Each recipe resides in a subfolder named after the software vendor or publisher:
- Use the official company/vendor name (e.g., `GitHub`, `Anthropic`, `Signal`)
- Manual icon files (rarely needed) should use the software name as a prefix
- No spaces in folder names; use proper capitalization

### Parent Recipe

The recipe's `ParentRecipe` must be:
- Publicly available via a shared AutoPkg repository
- Part of the AutoPkg organization or well-established community repos
- Produces a standard Apple package (`.pkg`) file

### Identifier

Recipe identifiers should follow the pattern:
- `com.github.fleet.direct.<SoftwareName>` for direct mode
- `com.github.fleet.gitops.<SoftwareName>` for GitOps mode

### Processing

Recipes should have a single processor stage: `FleetImporter`.

All arguments should be capable of being overridden by `Input` section variables using uppercase names with underscores (e.g., `%FLEET_API_BASE%`, `%SOFTWARE_TITLE%`).

### Required Arguments

All recipes must include these arguments in the `Input` section:
- `NAME`: Software display name (consistent with parent recipe)
- `SELF_SERVICE` must be set to `true`
- `AUTOMATIC_INSTALL` must be set to `false`
- Software packaging arguments from parent recipe (`pkg_path`, `version`)
- Mode-specific configuration:
  - **Direct mode**: API tokens, Fleet base URL, team ID
  - **GitOps mode**: S3 settings, GitHub tokens, repository URL
    - `FLEET_GITOPS_SOFTWARE_DIR` must be set to `lib/macos/software`
    - `FLEET_GITOPS_TEAM_YAML_PATH` must be set to `teams/workstations.yml`

### Categories

Use only these supported Fleet categories:
- `Browsers`
- `Communication`
- `Developer tools`
- `Productivity`

### Icons

Recipes should use automatic icon extraction (the default behavior):
- FleetImporter automatically extracts icons from .pkg files
- No manual icon file needed in most cases
- Icons are extracted from the .app bundle, converted to PNG, and compressed to meet Fleet's 100 KB limit

Only include a manual icon file if automatic extraction is not technically possible:
- Must be PNG format
- Square dimensions between 120x120px and 1024x1024px
- Less than 100KB filesize (Fleet requirement)
- Named `<SoftwareName>.png`
- Referenced in recipe as `icon: <SoftwareName>.png`

To disable automatic extraction (rare cases only):
- Add `skip_icon_extraction: true` to recipe arguments

### YAML Formatting

- Use 2-space indentation
- Quote string values consistently
- Use array format for lists (categories, labels)
- Validate YAML syntax before submitting

### Linting

All recipes must pass YAML validation:
```bash
python3 -c "import yaml; yaml.safe_load(open('Recipe.yaml'))"
```

### Enhancing the Processor

Improvements to `FleetImporter.py` are welcome, including:

- Bug fixes
- New features that align with Fleet's API capabilities
- Performance improvements
- Better error handling and logging
- Additional configuration options

#### Code Style Requirements

All Python code must pass AutoPkg's code style requirements before submission:

```bash
# Install development dependencies
python3 -m pip install black isort flake8 flake8-bugbear

# Format code
python3 -m black FleetImporter/FleetImporter.py
python3 -m isort FleetImporter/FleetImporter.py

# Validate (all must pass)
python3 -m py_compile FleetImporter/FleetImporter.py
python3 -m black --check --diff FleetImporter/FleetImporter.py
python3 -m isort --check-only --diff FleetImporter/FleetImporter.py
python3 -m flake8 FleetImporter/FleetImporter.py
```

## Submitting Changes

### Before You Submit

1. **Test your changes**: Run recipes locally to ensure they work
2. **Validate YAML**: Ensure all recipe files are valid YAML
3. **Run code checks**: For processor changes, pass all style checks
4. **Update documentation**: Add or update README sections as needed

### Pull Request Process

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch from `main`
3. Make your changes following the guidelines above
4. Ensure all tests pass in GitHub Actions
5. Submit a pull request with a clear description of your changes

### Pull Request Guidelines

- **Title**: Use a descriptive title (e.g., "Add Firefox recipes" or "Fix error handling in package upload")
- **Description**: Explain what changes you made and why
- **Testing**: Describe how you tested your changes
- **Related Issues**: Link to any related issues or discussions

## Questions or Ideas?

- Open an [issue](https://github.com/kitzy/fleetimporter/issues) for questions or feature requests
- Check existing issues and pull requests before starting work
- Ask for help in the [#autopkg channel](https://macadmins.slack.com/archives/C056155B4) on MacAdmins Slack
- Feel free to ask for help or clarification

## Code of Conduct

Be respectful and constructive in all interactions. This is a community project, and we appreciate your contributions!

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the same license as the project (see [LICENSE](LICENSE)).
